README.md, before:

# Nordic Energy Dashboard - Security Hardened Edition

A security-hardened web application for visualizing Nordic power grid energy data, designed to run behind your existing Nginx reverse proxy and Cloudflare, while also being accessible on your local LAN.

## Architecture

```
Internet → Cloudflare → Your Nginx → Docker App (port 5050)
                                          ↑
LAN Users ────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Extract and enter directory
unzip nordic-energy-dashboard-secure.zip
cd nordic-energy-dashboard-secure

# Start the container
docker-compose up -d

# Verify it's running
docker-compose ps
docker-compose logs -f
```

**Access:**
- LAN: `http://<your-docker-host>:5050`
- Internet: Via your nginx reverse proxy + Cloudflare

The app listens on port 5050 and is accessible from your local network. Configure nginx to proxy external traffic to it.

---

## Nginx Configuration

Add this to your existing nginx configuration:

### Basic Server Block

```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    server_name energy.yourdomain.com;

    # SSL handled by Cloudflare or your certs
    ssl_certificate /path/to/cert.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /path/to/key.pem;

    # Security headers
    add_header X-Frame-Options "SAMEORIGIN" always;
    add_header X-Content-Type-Options "nosniff" always;
    add_header X-XSS-Protection "1; mode=block" always;
    add_header Referrer-Policy "strict-origin-when-cross-origin" always;
    add_header Permissions-Policy "geolocation=(), microphone=(), camera=()" always;

    # Block access to internal endpoints
    location /internal {
        deny all;
        return 404;
    }

    # Block common exploit paths
    location ~* (\.php|\.asp|\.aspx|\.jsp|\.cgi|\.env|\.git)$ {
        deny all;
        return 404;
    }

    location ~* (wp-admin|wp-content|phpMyAdmin|actuator) {
        deny all;
        return 404;
    }

    # Rate limiting for API
    location /api/ {
        limit_req zone=api_limit burst=20 nodelay;
        
        # Update IP if nginx is on different host than Docker
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        
        # Pass Cloudflare real IP
        proxy_set_header CF-Connecting-IP $http_cf_connecting_ip;
        
        # Timeouts
        proxy_connect_timeout 10s;
        proxy_send_timeout 10s;
        proxy_read_timeout 30s;
    }

    # Static files (optional - can also let Flask serve them)
    location /static/ {
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        expires 1h;
        add_header Cache-Control "public, immutable";
    }

    # Main application
    location / {
        limit_req zone=general_limit burst=30 nodelay;
        
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_set_header CF-Connecting-IP $http_cf_connecting_ip;
    }

    # Health check (restrict to internal/monitoring IPs)
    location = /internal/health {
        allow 127.0.0.1;
        allow 10.0.0.0/8;      # Adjust to your monitoring IP range
        allow 172.16.0.0/12;
        allow 192.168.0.0/16;
        deny all;
        
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_set_header X-Internal-Request "true";
    }
}

# Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name energy.yourdomain.com;
    return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
}
```

**Note:** Replace `YOUR_DOCKER_HOST` with your Docker host IP (e.g., `192.168.21.x`, `docker06`, or `127.0.0.1` if nginx is on the same host).

### Rate Limiting Zone (add to http block)

```nginx
http {
    # Rate limiting zones
    limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=api_limit:10m rate=10r/s;
    limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=general_limit:10m rate=30r/s;
    
    # Connection limits
    limit_conn_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=conn_limit:10m;
    
    # ... rest of your http config
}
```

### Using Cloudflare Real IP

If you're behind Cloudflare, add this to properly log/rate-limit by real client IP:

```nginx
# In http block - set real IP from Cloudflare
set_real_ip_from 103.21.244.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 103.22.200.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 103.31.4.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 104.16.0.0/13;
set_real_ip_from 104.24.0.0/14;
set_real_ip_from 108.162.192.0/18;
set_real_ip_from 131.0.72.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 141.101.64.0/18;
set_real_ip_from 162.158.0.0/15;
set_real_ip_from 172.64.0.0/13;
set_real_ip_from 173.245.48.0/20;
set_real_ip_from 188.114.96.0/20;
set_real_ip_from 190.93.240.0/20;
set_real_ip_from 197.234.240.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 198.41.128.0/17;
# IPv6
set_real_ip_from 2400:cb00::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2606:4700::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2803:f800::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2405:b500::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2405:8100::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2a06:98c0::/29;
set_real_ip_from 2c0f:f248::/32;

real_ip_header CF-Connecting-IP;
```

---

## Cloudflare Configuration

### SSL/TLS Settings

| Setting | Recommended Value |
|---------|------------------|
| SSL/TLS encryption mode | **Full (strict)** |
| Always Use HTTPS | **On** |
| Minimum TLS Version | **TLS 1.2** |
| TLS 1.3 | **On** |
| Automatic HTTPS Rewrites | **On** |

### Security Settings

| Setting | Recommended Value |
|---------|------------------|
| Security Level | **Medium** or **High** |
| Bot Fight Mode | **On** |
| Browser Integrity Check | **On** |
| Challenge Passage | **30 minutes** |

### WAF (Web Application Firewall)

Enable these managed rulesets:
- **Cloudflare Managed Ruleset** - On
- **Cloudflare OWASP Core Ruleset** - On

### Rate Limiting Rules

Create these rate limiting rules in **Security → WAF → Rate limiting rules**:

#### Rule 1: API Rate Limit
```
If: URI Path contains "/api/"
Then: Block for 60 seconds
Rate: 60 requests per 1 minute
```

#### Rule 2: General Rate Limit
```
If: URI Path equals "/" OR URI Path starts with "/static/"
Then: Block for 60 seconds  
Rate: 120 requests per 1 minute
```

### Page Rules (Optional)

| URL Pattern | Setting |
|-------------|---------|
| `*yourdomain.com/static/*` | Cache Level: Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 day |
| `*yourdomain.com/api/*` | Cache Level: Bypass, Security Level: High |

### Firewall Rules

Block known bad patterns:

```
Rule 1: Block sensitive paths
If: (http.request.uri.path contains ".env") or 
    (http.request.uri.path contains ".git") or 
    (http.request.uri.path contains "wp-admin") or
    (http.request.uri.path contains "phpMyAdmin")
Then: Block
```

```
Rule 2: Block non-browser user agents (optional, may block legitimate bots)
If: (not http.user_agent contains "Mozilla") and 
    (not http.user_agent contains "curl") and
    (http.request.uri.path contains "/api/")
Then: Challenge (Managed Challenge)
```

---

## Application Security Features

### Built-in Protections

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Input validation | Strict whitelist for country codes (SE, NO, FI, DK only) |
| Parameter bounds | Days parameter limited to 1-200 |
| Rate limiting | Flask-Limiter (30 req/min API, 100 req/min default) |
| Security headers | CSP, X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options |
| Path filtering | Blocks `.php`, `.env`, `wp-admin`, etc. |
| SQL injection prevention | Parameterized queries + CHECK constraints |
| Error handling | Generic messages only (no stack traces) |
| Request size limit | 1MB maximum |

### Internal Endpoints (Blocked Externally)

These routes require `X-Internal-Request: true` header:

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `/internal/health` | Health check for monitoring |
| `/internal/debug` | Debug info (disabled by default) |
| `/internal/fetch-now` | Manual data fetch (disabled by default) |

Access from your server:
```bash
curl -H "X-Internal-Request: true" http://127.0.0.1:5050/internal/health
```

---

## Docker Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DATABASE_PATH` | `/data/energy.db` | Database location |
| `FETCH_INTERVAL` | `5` | Data fetch interval (minutes) |
| `DATA_RETENTION_DAYS` | `200` | Data retention period |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `WARNING` | Logging level |
| `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINTS` | `false` | Enable debug routes |
| `RATE_LIMIT_API` | `30 per minute` | API rate limit |

### Container Security

- **Read-only filesystem** - Only `/tmp` and `/data` writable
- **No capabilities** - All Linux capabilities dropped
- **No privilege escalation** - `no-new-privileges` enabled
- **Non-root user** - Runs as `appuser`

### Port Binding

Default: `5050:5000` (accessible from LAN)

To restrict to localhost only (more secure if nginx is on same host):
```yaml
ports:
  - "127.0.0.1:5050:5000"
```

To change the external port:
```yaml
ports:
  - "YOUR_PORT:5000"
```

---

## Operations

### Starting/Stopping

```bash
docker-compose up -d      # Start
docker-compose down       # Stop
docker-compose restart    # Restart
docker-compose logs -f    # View logs
```

### Health Check

```bash
# Local check
curl http://127.0.0.1:5050/api/stats

# With internal header
curl -H "X-Internal-Request: true" http://127.0.0.1:5050/internal/health
```

### Backup Database

```bash
# Create backup
docker run --rm -v nordic_energy_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  tar czf /backup/energy-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz -C /data .

# Restore
docker-compose down
docker run --rm -v nordic_energy_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  sh -c "rm -rf /data/* && tar xzf /backup/energy-backup-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz -C /data"
docker-compose up -d
```

### Update Container

```bash
docker-compose down
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up -d
```

---

## Security Checklist

- [ ] `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINTS=false` in production
- [ ] `LOG_LEVEL=WARNING` after initial setup
- [ ] Nginx blocks `/internal/*` paths from internet
- [ ] Cloudflare SSL set to "Full (strict)"
- [ ] Cloudflare WAF enabled
- [ ] Cloudflare rate limiting configured
- [ ] Nginx rate limiting configured
- [ ] Real IP from Cloudflare configured in nginx
- [ ] Consider firewall rules to limit port 5050 access to trusted LAN IPs only

---

## Troubleshooting

### Container won't start
```bash
docker-compose logs
# Check for port conflicts
netstat -tlnp | grep 5050
```

### 502 Bad Gateway from nginx
```bash
# Check if container is running
docker-compose ps
# Check container logs
docker-compose logs
# Test direct connection
curl http://127.0.0.1:5050/api/stats
```

### Rate limit errors
- Check Cloudflare rate limiting rules
- Check nginx rate limiting configuration
- Adjust `RATE_LIMIT_API` environment variable

### No data in charts
```bash
# Check scheduler is running
docker-compose logs | grep -i fetch
# Check Statnett API is reachable from container
docker exec nordic-energy-dashboard curl -s https://driftsdata.statnett.no/restapi/ProductionConsumption/GetLatestDetailedOverview | head -c 200
```

Commit message:

Enhance README with API source information
Updated description to include API source from Statnett.no.

README.md, after:

# Nordic Energy Dashboard - Security Hardened Edition

A security-hardened web application for visualizing Nordic power grid energy data provided via the public API from Statnett.no, designed to run behind your existing Nginx reverse proxy and Cloudflare, while also being accessible on your local LAN.

<img width="802" height="1104" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0ad689c0-f9c9-4a61-9a1b-e8593cdd1b50" />

## Architecture

```
Internet → Cloudflare → Your Nginx → Docker App (port 5050)
                                          ↑
LAN Users ────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Extract and enter directory
unzip nordic-energy-dashboard-secure.zip
cd nordic-energy-dashboard-secure

# Start the container
docker-compose up -d

# Verify it's running
docker-compose ps
docker-compose logs -f
```

**Access:**
- LAN: `http://<your-docker-host>:5050`
- Internet: Via your nginx reverse proxy + Cloudflare

The app listens on port 5050 and is accessible from your local network. Configure nginx to proxy external traffic to it.

---

## Nginx Configuration

Add this to your existing nginx configuration:

### Basic Server Block

```nginx
server {
    listen 443 ssl http2;
    server_name energy.yourdomain.com;

    # SSL handled by Cloudflare or your certs
    ssl_certificate /path/to/cert.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key /path/to/key.pem;

    # Security headers
    add_header X-Frame-Options "SAMEORIGIN" always;
    add_header X-Content-Type-Options "nosniff" always;
    add_header X-XSS-Protection "1; mode=block" always;
    add_header Referrer-Policy "strict-origin-when-cross-origin" always;
    add_header Permissions-Policy "geolocation=(), microphone=(), camera=()" always;

    # Block access to internal endpoints
    location /internal {
        deny all;
        return 404;
    }

    # Block common exploit paths
    location ~* (\.php|\.asp|\.aspx|\.jsp|\.cgi|\.env|\.git)$ {
        deny all;
        return 404;
    }

    location ~* (wp-admin|wp-content|phpMyAdmin|actuator) {
        deny all;
        return 404;
    }

    # Rate limiting for API
    location /api/ {
        limit_req zone=api_limit burst=20 nodelay;
        
        # Update IP if nginx is on different host than Docker
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        
        # Pass Cloudflare real IP
        proxy_set_header CF-Connecting-IP $http_cf_connecting_ip;
        
        # Timeouts
        proxy_connect_timeout 10s;
        proxy_send_timeout 10s;
        proxy_read_timeout 30s;
    }

    # Static files (optional - can also let Flask serve them)
    location /static/ {
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        expires 1h;
        add_header Cache-Control "public, immutable";
    }

    # Main application
    location / {
        limit_req zone=general_limit burst=30 nodelay;
        
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
        proxy_set_header CF-Connecting-IP $http_cf_connecting_ip;
    }

    # Health check (restrict to internal/monitoring IPs)
    location = /internal/health {
        allow 127.0.0.1;
        allow 10.0.0.0/8;      # Adjust to your monitoring IP range
        allow 172.16.0.0/12;
        allow 192.168.0.0/16;
        deny all;
        
        proxy_pass http://YOUR_DOCKER_HOST:5050;
        proxy_set_header X-Internal-Request "true";
    }
}

# Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name energy.yourdomain.com;
    return 301 https://$server_name$request_uri;
}
```

**Note:** Replace `YOUR_DOCKER_HOST` with your Docker host IP (e.g., `192.168.21.x`, `docker06`, or `127.0.0.1` if nginx is on the same host).

### Rate Limiting Zone (add to http block)

```nginx
http {
    # Rate limiting zones
    limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=api_limit:10m rate=10r/s;
    limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=general_limit:10m rate=30r/s;
    
    # Connection limits
    limit_conn_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=conn_limit:10m;
    
    # ... rest of your http config
}
```

### Using Cloudflare Real IP

If you're behind Cloudflare, add this to properly log/rate-limit by real client IP:

```nginx
# In http block - set real IP from Cloudflare
set_real_ip_from 103.21.244.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 103.22.200.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 103.31.4.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 104.16.0.0/13;
set_real_ip_from 104.24.0.0/14;
set_real_ip_from 108.162.192.0/18;
set_real_ip_from 131.0.72.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 141.101.64.0/18;
set_real_ip_from 162.158.0.0/15;
set_real_ip_from 172.64.0.0/13;
set_real_ip_from 173.245.48.0/20;
set_real_ip_from 188.114.96.0/20;
set_real_ip_from 190.93.240.0/20;
set_real_ip_from 197.234.240.0/22;
set_real_ip_from 198.41.128.0/17;
# IPv6
set_real_ip_from 2400:cb00::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2606:4700::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2803:f800::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2405:b500::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2405:8100::/32;
set_real_ip_from 2a06:98c0::/29;
set_real_ip_from 2c0f:f248::/32;

real_ip_header CF-Connecting-IP;
```

---

## Cloudflare Configuration

### SSL/TLS Settings

| Setting | Recommended Value |
|---------|------------------|
| SSL/TLS encryption mode | **Full (strict)** |
| Always Use HTTPS | **On** |
| Minimum TLS Version | **TLS 1.2** |
| TLS 1.3 | **On** |
| Automatic HTTPS Rewrites | **On** |

### Security Settings

| Setting | Recommended Value |
|---------|------------------|
| Security Level | **Medium** or **High** |
| Bot Fight Mode | **On** |
| Browser Integrity Check | **On** |
| Challenge Passage | **30 minutes** |

### WAF (Web Application Firewall)

Enable these managed rulesets:
- **Cloudflare Managed Ruleset** - On
- **Cloudflare OWASP Core Ruleset** - On

### Rate Limiting Rules

Create these rate limiting rules in **Security → WAF → Rate limiting rules**:

#### Rule 1: API Rate Limit
```
If: URI Path contains "/api/"
Then: Block for 60 seconds
Rate: 60 requests per 1 minute
```

#### Rule 2: General Rate Limit
```
If: URI Path equals "/" OR URI Path starts with "/static/"
Then: Block for 60 seconds  
Rate: 120 requests per 1 minute
```

### Page Rules (Optional)

| URL Pattern | Setting |
|-------------|---------|
| `*yourdomain.com/static/*` | Cache Level: Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 day |
| `*yourdomain.com/api/*` | Cache Level: Bypass, Security Level: High |

### Firewall Rules

Block known bad patterns:

```
Rule 1: Block sensitive paths
If: (http.request.uri.path contains ".env") or 
    (http.request.uri.path contains ".git") or 
    (http.request.uri.path contains "wp-admin") or
    (http.request.uri.path contains "phpMyAdmin")
Then: Block
```

```
Rule 2: Block non-browser user agents (optional, may block legitimate bots)
If: (not http.user_agent contains "Mozilla") and 
    (not http.user_agent contains "curl") and
    (http.request.uri.path contains "/api/")
Then: Challenge (Managed Challenge)
```

---

## Application Security Features

### Built-in Protections

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| Input validation | Strict whitelist for country codes (SE, NO, FI, DK only) |
| Parameter bounds | Days parameter limited to 1-200 |
| Rate limiting | Flask-Limiter (30 req/min API, 100 req/min default) |
| Security headers | CSP, X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options |
| Path filtering | Blocks `.php`, `.env`, `wp-admin`, etc. |
| SQL injection prevention | Parameterized queries + CHECK constraints |
| Error handling | Generic messages only (no stack traces) |
| Request size limit | 1MB maximum |

### Internal Endpoints (Blocked Externally)

These routes require `X-Internal-Request: true` header:

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `/internal/health` | Health check for monitoring |
| `/internal/debug` | Debug info (disabled by default) |
| `/internal/fetch-now` | Manual data fetch (disabled by default) |

Access from your server:
```bash
curl -H "X-Internal-Request: true" http://127.0.0.1:5050/internal/health
```

---

## Docker Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DATABASE_PATH` | `/data/energy.db` | Database location |
| `FETCH_INTERVAL` | `5` | Data fetch interval (minutes) |
| `DATA_RETENTION_DAYS` | `200` | Data retention period |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `WARNING` | Logging level |
| `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINTS` | `false` | Enable debug routes |
| `RATE_LIMIT_API` | `30 per minute` | API rate limit |

### Container Security

- **Read-only filesystem** - Only `/tmp` and `/data` writable
- **No capabilities** - All Linux capabilities dropped
- **No privilege escalation** - `no-new-privileges` enabled
- **Non-root user** - Runs as `appuser`

### Port Binding

Default: `5050:5000` (accessible from LAN)

To restrict to localhost only (more secure if nginx is on same host):
```yaml
ports:
  - "127.0.0.1:5050:5000"
```

To change the external port:
```yaml
ports:
  - "YOUR_PORT:5000"
```

---

## Operations

### Starting/Stopping

```bash
docker-compose up -d      # Start
docker-compose down       # Stop
docker-compose restart    # Restart
docker-compose logs -f    # View logs
```

### Health Check

```bash
# Local check
curl http://127.0.0.1:5050/api/stats

# With internal header
curl -H "X-Internal-Request: true" http://127.0.0.1:5050/internal/health
```

### Backup Database

```bash
# Create backup
docker run --rm -v nordic_energy_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  tar czf /backup/energy-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz -C /data .

# Restore
docker-compose down
docker run --rm -v nordic_energy_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  sh -c "rm -rf /data/* && tar xzf /backup/energy-backup-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz -C /data"
docker-compose up -d
```

### Update Container

```bash
docker-compose down
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose up -d
```

---

## Security Checklist

- [ ] `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINTS=false` in production
- [ ] `LOG_LEVEL=WARNING` after initial setup
- [ ] Nginx blocks `/internal/*` paths from internet
- [ ] Cloudflare SSL set to "Full (strict)"
- [ ] Cloudflare WAF enabled
- [ ] Cloudflare rate limiting configured
- [ ] Nginx rate limiting configured
- [ ] Real IP from Cloudflare configured in nginx
- [ ] Consider firewall rules to limit port 5050 access to trusted LAN IPs only

---

## Troubleshooting

### Container won't start
```bash
docker-compose logs
# Check for port conflicts
netstat -tlnp | grep 5050
```

### 502 Bad Gateway from nginx
```bash
# Check if container is running
docker-compose ps
# Check container logs
docker-compose logs
# Test direct connection
curl http://127.0.0.1:5050/api/stats
```

### Rate limit errors
- Check Cloudflare rate limiting rules
- Check nginx rate limiting configuration
- Adjust `RATE_LIMIT_API` environment variable

### No data in charts
```bash
# Check scheduler is running
docker-compose logs | grep -i fetch
# Check Statnett API is reachable from container
docker exec nordic-energy-dashboard curl -s https://driftsdata.statnett.no/restapi/ProductionConsumption/GetLatestDetailedOverview | head -c 200
```
